# Process : BuildingQualityAssessmentIndicatorsComputation.md

## InputData 1 : BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation
BuildingDataSet at a given time (see Process BuildingDataPreparation) that we want to assess its quality 
## InputData 2 : BuildingDataSet_GT
BuildingDataSet at the given time (see Process BuildingDataPreparation) that is used as ground truth to compare with BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation
## InputData 3 : BuildingChangeDataSet
Dataset corresponding to changes detected in buildings data at a given time, structured after the BuildingChangeSchema. The changes are representing here, the change between BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation and its ground truth dataset. 
## InputData 4 : MatchingLinksSet (and its metadata) 
MatchingLinks between homologous features from the BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation and BuildingDataSet_GT datasets. 

## OutputData 1 : Quality indicators  (and its metadata)
* commission
* ommission
* position accuracy: mean, RMSE, AgrRate similar, AgrRate identical
* shape accuracy :mean, RMSE, AgrRate similar, AgrRate identical

## Method overview

* Produce Quality Assessment Indicators for building generated by an automatic process (FLAIR-HUB2BF). It consists in comparing BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation with its reference dataset BuildingDataSet_GT, by using the matching links obtained with the process : 
* The matching links are interpreted as follows:
  * 1:1: A building existing in the real world is represented in both the GT dataset and the dataset under evaluation. Position and shape accuracies can be computed.
  * 1:0: A building is present in the BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation  dataset but missing from the BuildingDataSet_GT dataset, corresponding to a commission error.
  * 0:1: A building is present in the BuildingDataSet_GT dataset but absent from the BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation dataset, corresponding to an omission error.
  * m:n: Multiple geometries are linked and require further inspection. For example, two attached buildings in the real world may be detected as a single building footprint by the FLAIR-HUB2BF process, while the GT dataset represents them as two separate building footprints.     

## Step 1 : Compute omission and commission
* Omission error (number): Ratio of the number of buildings missing from BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation (i.e., buildings with 0:1 links) to the total number of buildings in the GT dataset.
* Omission error (area): Ratio of the total area of omitted buildings (i.e., buildings with 0:1 links) to the total building area in the GT dataset.
* Commission error (number): Ratio of the number of falsely detected buildings (i.e., buildings with 1:0 links) to the total number of buildings in BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation.
* Commission error (area): Ratio of the total area of falsely detected buildings (i.e., buildings with 1:0 links) to the total building area in BuildingDataSet_ForEvaluation.  
## Step 2 : Compute position accuracy 
* To evaluate positional accuracy, only the 1:1 matching links were considered. For each matched link, the surface distance  is derived from the surface similarity (the ratio between their intersection area and their union area) by subtracting it from 1. It represents the proportion of non-overlapping surface between two homologous building footprints. Values range from 0 (perfect overlap) to 1 (no overlap). The following indicators were then computed based on this normalized distance:
  * MeanAbsolute: Mean value of the normalized surface distance.
  * RMSE: Root mean square of the normalized surface distance.
  * AgreementRate (similar): Percentage of matched building geometries whose normalized surface distance is below a predefined similarity threshold. The last was set to 0.3 in our study. 
  * AgreementRate (identical): Percentage of matched building geometries whose normalized surface distance is zero.

## Step 2 : Compute shape accuracy 
* To compute shape accuracy, we used the 1:1 matching links and compute for each matching link the [radial distance](https://doi.org/10.1080/13658816.2022.2123487). A value of 0 means perfect shape. Then, we compute the indictaors: 
  * MeanAbsolute: Mean value of the radial distance.
  * RMSE: Root mean square of the radial distance.
  * AgreementRate (similar): Percentage of matched building geometries whose radial distance is below a predefined similarity threshold. The last was set to 0.3 in our study. 
  * AgreementRate (identical): Percentage of matched building geometries with identical shape (radial distance =0).

The code is available here: **Link TO BE ADDED**
