# Process : BuildingsFootprintsAnnotation

* This is the description of the process that allows to generate building footprints for
the IasiStudy (https://github.com/subdense/dashboard/blob/master/Studies/IasiStudy.md) for the year 2011. This was needed because of the lack of the building footprints in 2011. 
## InputData 1 : Orthophoto_year1
Orthophoto for the study area at the oldest time 
## InputData 2 : Orthophoto_year2 
Orthophoto for the study area at a more recent time
## InputData 3 : BuildingDataSet_year2 
BuildingDataSet at a more recent time (see Process FLAIR-HUB2BF)

## OutputData 1 : BuildingDataSet_year1  (and its metadata)
Dataset corresponding to building footprints for year 1, structured as a geopackage containing the dataset. (GeoPackage `.gpkg`: A more modern format offering better 
performance and greater flexibility)
A description of this dataset within Subdense “IasiStudy” registry.

## Tool used : 
* the Tool name Annotator (https://github.com/subdense/annotator) is used

## Method overview
* Produce building footprints for a past reference year (Year 1) from building footprints available for a more recent year (Year 2) using a collaborative annotation approach involving volunteers during mapathons.
## Step 1 : Set the Annotator tool 
* Chare the screen on two parts left and right.
* Display Orthophoto_year1 on the left
* Display Orthophoto_year2 on the right
* Display the same BuildingDataSet_year2 over both Orthophoto_year1 and Orthophoto_year2
## Step 2 : Set the response design 
* This step defines the response categories available to the volunteers. In this study, we chose the following categories: no change, construction, demolition, modification, and quality issues.
## Step 3 : Run mapathons
* This step was carried out with the participation of fourth-year students from the Department of Terrestrial Measurements and
  Cadastre, Faculty of Hydrotechnics, Geodesy and Environmental Engineering, “Gheorghe Asachi” Technical University of Iași.
## Step 4 : Post-processing 
* The annotated dataset is extracted, and a new BuildingDataSet_year1 is generated by applying the following rules:
    * no change: keep the building footprint from year 2
    * construction: drop the building footprint from year 2
    * demolition: perform manual digitization of the building using Orthophoto_year1
    * modification: perform manual inspection and editing of the building geometry
    * quality issues: perform manual inspection and editing of the building geometry
## Step 5 : Apply the data schema and naming conventions, then generate a GeoPackage 
